added child device proposal to config management (#1236)
thin-edge/thin-edge.io: docs/src/references/c8y-configuration-management.md

This [TOML](https://toml.io/en/) file defines the list of files to be managed from the cloud tenant.
Each configuration file is defined by a record with:
* The full `path` to the file.

  By default it is treated as a local filesysten path.

  If it contains the prefix `mqtt://` it is treated as MQTT topic structure, where another process/external device is expected to provide/consume the configuration file.
  
  On file downloaded from the cloud to the device, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` publishs the content to the MQTT topic `{path}`, instead of writing it to a local filesystem path.
  

>   On file upload to the cloud, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` publishs an empty message to the MQTT topic `{path}/retrieval` to request the process/external device to publish the current configuration file content to the MQTT topic `{path}`. Then `c8y_configuration_plugin` consumes the content from MQTT topic `{path}` instead of reading a local filesystem path.

Reviewer: I understand the need but this would be really fragile. Notably one would have to handle timeouts.

* Did you consider other alternatives?
* This proposal is not aligned with the current design. To keep things both simple and extensible - this configuration manager just notify over MQTT that a new configuration is available. Why not propose something along these lines?
* There is already a [discussion on this topic](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/discussions/1144). It might be good to compare this proposal with those given there.
* It would also be good to have something consistent with [what is discussed for log management](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1102#discussion_r861176527).

I also have comments on the structure of this doc.
* It would be better to keep this paragraph focused on the content of the configuration file. How these parameters are used should be detailed elsewhere say "configuration files for child devices".
* The issue of managing configuration files for child devices is far more complex than for the main device. Hence, it might be good to add a design document stating the problem and exploring some alternative solutions with their pros and cons.

Reviewer: Using retained messages is indeed an option. The main issue is - as you highlighted, that the child devices must give their initial configuration before hands.

Using HTTP is another one. With the same issue regarding initialization. On configuration changed from the cloud, the configuration plugin serves the new configuration over HTTP and notifies the url in the message sent over the `tedge/configuration_change` topic e.g `{ "path": "/etc/tedge/tedge.toml" , "url": "http://192.168.1.6/tedge/configurations/etc/tedge/tedge.toml" }`.

To move forward, it would be good to describe these solutions (at least 3) with the pros and cons. One also needs to make the problem clear e.g "how to deliver files to child devices" and "how to fetch files form child devices".

Author: > I also have comments on the structure of this doc.
> 
> * It would be better to keep this paragraph focused on the content of the configuration file. How these parameters are used should be detailed elsewhere say "configuration files for child devices".

I moved child-device details now into the new section 'Configuration files for child devices'. 

I will add there also both other two proposals we discussed above, for providing/consuming config files via network (retain MQTT message, and HTTP instead of MQTT retain messages).

Author: > I understand the need but this would be really fragile. Notably one would have to handle timeouts.

I agree. We really should not go into that direction.
As I added now another proposal based in MQTT with retain messages (see comment https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236#discussion_r922271484 above) I removed that 1st MQTT proposal that uses a request-response pattern.

Author: > Using HTTP is another one.  [...]  On configuration changed from the cloud, the configuration plugin serves the new configuration over HTTP [...]

Due to your feedback I added now another proposal based on HTTP. However I am not convinced that this is really what we want. Especially from implementation POV it introduces complexity without much benefit.

  These are only used when a configuration file pushed from the cloud doesn't exist on the device.
  When a configuration file is already present on the device, this plugin never changes file ownership,
  ignoring these parameters.

> * Optional `desired`. For details see section "Configuration files for child devices" below.

Author: Thanks, its removed now.

  These are only used when a configuration file pushed from the cloud doesn't exist on the device.
  When a configuration file is already present on the device, this plugin never changes file ownership,
  ignoring these parameters.

> * Optional `childid`. For details see section "Configuration files for child devices" below.

Reviewer 2: Not quite convinced with this idea of having the configs of the root device and the child devices in the same config file, from a UX point-of-view. The whole idea of having a child device as a dedicated device twin was to ease the management of everything related to that child devices without any interference from other devices. By mixing things up, we're going against that fundamental principle. With this UX, whenever I want to manage the config file list of a child device from the cloud, the user will always have to navigate away from the child device twin to the thin-edge root device twin. That's not a very pleasant UX in my view.

Reviewer: I fully agree with @albinsuresh. We need to consider the alternative of one `c8y_configuration_plugin.toml` file per child device.

> * Optional `desired`. For details see section "Configuration files for child devices" below.

Author: The `current` configuration does no more exists, as we introduced a pattern where the plugin request configuration files on purpose. So now when sending a new configuration snapshot to an external device, the external-device does not send the accpect configuration to the plugin, but notifies the plugin about success via MQTT.

> * Optional `protocol`. Valid values are "http" or "filesystem". For details see section "Configuration files for child devices" below.

Author: There should be still a way for local processes to consume/provide those files via the local filesystem, as it is currently the case. So for example for a '/etc/tedge/tedge.toml', or a '/etc/tedge/mosquitto-conf/tedge-mosquitto.conf' we will not force one to do HTTP PUT / GET on the localhost. Right?

So we might probably avoid to mix MQTT and HTTP, but we should provide a way to select on file basis: use network OR use local filesystem.

    { path = '/etc/tedge/mosquitto-conf/c8y-bridge.conf' },
    { path = '/etc/tedge/mosquitto-conf/tedge-mosquitto.conf' },
    { path = '/etc/mosquitto/mosquitto.conf', type = 'mosquitto', user = 'mosquitto', group = 'mosquitto', mode = 0o644 }

>     { path = '/etc/child1/foo.conf', type = 'foo', childid = 'child1'  },

Reviewer 3: How will this approach scale when we plan to add support for hierarchial child device? Would each layer have only one child and its all automatically agrregated at levels.

Author: If we need to reflect the hierarchy on the thin-edge device (i.E. the whole path from the thin-edge device to the addressed child-device), I see to options.

Assuming a hierachy:
```
    thin-edge
       |
       +--- child1
       |       +-----grandchild1_1
       | 
       +--- child2
```

Further lets assume the device we want now address is 'grandchild1_1'.

**Option 1:** the `childid` could be assigned with a list. 
Example: `childid = ['child1', 'grandchild1_1']` 

**Option 2:** we could define a delimiter (e.g. '/') that is used to separate the childids inside a string.
Example: `childid = ['child1/grandchild1_1']` 
 

In case of C8Y when each child has a unique ID, it is possible to address the grandchild directly, without any hierchy: `childid = ['grandchild1_1']`

Reviewer: I think we need first to uniquely identify child devices and add support for hierarchy on top of that.

The issue on how manage path in a hierarchy is beyond what is proposed with these options. These needs to be done also for the topic names and file hierarchies.

Author: So far the approach is to avoid any hierarchical structure in paths, MQTT topics, etc.

For C8Y that is not a problem since the child-id (used as C8Y external ID) must be anyway unique over all hierarchy levels, and can addressed directly with their child-id (C8Y external ID).

However I will consider that comment again in PR "requirements and use-cases" (#1195).

  
The HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` provides the service to transfer files from external devices to the local filesystem of the thin-edge device's, and vice versa.

  * `tedge_agent` serves PUT and GET requests for temporary file up/downloads
    * a temporary file can be uploaded with an HTTP PUT request to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/tmpfiles`,
      where the HTTP response contains a _temporary URL_.
    * a temporary file can be downloaded with an HTTP GET request to `http://<ip address of thin-edge device>/<temporary URL>`
    * a local API allows the plugin to access (expose and obtains) a temporary file directly via the thin-edge device's local filesystem

    * TODO: Investigate and decide about filetransfer's local API in scheduled prototype (https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1307), according to topics below:
 
      * local API must avoid that there are two copies of the same file at any point in time
      * local API must avoid that the file content is transfered/copied from one to another place, when the plugin _obtains_ the file. 

>         Instead just the directory link may change (as it is the case for bash `mv` command).

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this hard restriction should be a part of the specification as it assumes that the plugin and the file transfer service shares a file system. They could be running as separate containers as well.

Author: Removed now from specification, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236#discussion_r940987634

> Example Flow:

Reviewer 2: Replacing these textual flows with sequence diagrams would vastly improve the readability.

Author: I added now a sequence diagram and numbering to both textual flows.

> **Device-to-Cloud Behaviour:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Fetch configuration file from child device to cloud**
```

    * TODO: Investigate and decide about filetransfer's local API in scheduled prototype (https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1307), according to topics below:
 
      * local API must avoid that there are two copies of the same file at any point in time
      * local API must avoid that the file content is transfered/copied from one to another place, when the plugin _obtains_ the file. 
        Instead just the directory link may change (as it is the case for bash `mv` command).
      * file is removed from filetransfer's specific folder when the file was successfully obtained to the plugin's path.
      
      Reasons for requirements above: Saving disc-space and CPU resources for large files.

    * TO-BE-DEFINED:
    
      * Decide which error paths to be considered.
      * Decide if any timeout to be considerd when waiting for upload notification from external device.

  * C8Y config plugin: sends the obtained file to C8Y

  * C8Y config plugin: removed the file form local filesystem
  

> **Cloud-to-Device Behaviour:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Push configuration file update from cloud to child device**
```

  * at some point a config sent from cloud for type `bar.conf` for `child1` arrives at C8Y config plugin<br/>
    Format of C8Y SmartREST message for config send operation: `524,<childid>,<URL>,<config type>`. See [C8Y SmartREST doc](https://cumulocity.com/guides/reference/smartrest-two/#download-configuration-file-with-type-524)<br/>
    Example: `524,child1,http://www.my.url,bar.conf`

>   * C8Y config plugin: downloads the file based on the URL received from C8Y, and stores it some plugin specific local filesystem path (e.g. `/tmp/c8y-cfg-plugin/<childid>_<cfg-type>`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * C8Y config plugin: downloads the file based on the URL received from C8Y, to some temporary location
```
Removing the example path as well, since the location or the name of the temporary file doesn't matter and hence we don't need to enforce a naming convention.

  for instance `tedge/configuration_change//etc/tedge/mosquitto-conf/c8y-bridge.conf`.
* Since the type of configuration file is used as an MQTT topic name, the characters `#` and `+` cannot be used in a type name.
  If such a character is used in a type name (or in the path of a configuration file without explicit type),
  then the whole plugin configuration `/etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` is considered ill-formed.

> * Notifications for child-devices and their external devices are handled differently, as configuration files are fetched/pushed from/to external devices via HTTP file transfer. Thereby notifications are part of the file transfer contract (details see section [Fetching/Pushing configuration file](#fetchingpushing-configuration-file-fromto-the-external-device) below).

Reviewer: > Notifications for child-devices and their external devices are handled differently

I can understand that some differences are required but why so many? Why no more paths to configuration files? Why only *opaque* configuration types?

Author: I am going to replace the `type` with the `path` as unique reference between the child-device and the plugin.

Then the behaviour for child-devices and the thin-edge device is more similar:
In both cases each configuration file has a `path`, but the difference is for a child-device that the path is treated as path pointing to the child-devices filesystem. And it's finally on the child-device whether it understand that `path` as a filesystem path, or something different (e.g. some database key, a variable name, ...).

Author: > I am going to replace the `type` with the `path` as unique reference between the child-device and the plugin.

That change is applied now.

## Configuration files for child devices

To manage configuration files for child-devices the `c8y_configuration_plugin` aspects as below are relevant:

* Associating configurations with cloud's child-device twin
  * an external device declares its supported config-types to the plugin via MQTT, containing a child-id as reference to the child-device twin
  * the plugin associates the reported config-type list from the external device to its cloud device twin matching the child-id
  * the plugin stores the supported config-types of each child-device in a separate config-file
  * the config-list files of each child-device is also managed by Configuration Management feature from C8Y
* Consuming/Providing files from/to thin-edge via network
  * any configuration file exchange to/from the external child device is handled by an HTTP based file transfer service provided by thin-edge

## Managing Supported Configuration List of child devices

To announce a child-devices configuration management capability child-device provisioning as described in [child-device reference documentation](child-devices.md#1-child-device-provisioning) is used.

> The `capability specific JSON object` for `c8y_configuration_plugin` contains all configurations the external device provides. Thereby each configuration appears with a `type`.

Reviewer: Here the capability is named is named `configuration`. The actual c8y capabilities are `c8y_UploadConfigFile` and `c8y_DownloadConfigFile`. Which component does the translation?

Author: The knowledge which _C8Y supported operations_ are needed is in the plugin that supports a certain capability. In that spec, the C8Y Config Plugin serves the `configuration` capability to child-devices, so that plugin is the one that knows, therefore `c8y_UploadConfigFile` and `c8y_DownloadConfigFile` must be declared to each concerned child-device twin.

Author: I will consider your comment also for the "thin-edge inventory" topic. There we need to define a clear terminology for: "capabilities", "operations", "c8y_supported operations", ...

The MQTT message is as below:

```json
{
   "configurations": [
     {

>        "type": "<config type 1>"

Reviewer: Having only a configuration type sounds Cumulocity specific. While the generic `configurations` record suggest something more generic.

Author: With one of the latest spec changes there is here now mainly a `path` instead of a `type`. The `path` is the mandatory field, used as unique reference between the child-device and the plugin. The `type` can be optionally defined, or value `path` will be used for `type` as well.

So now we are here more decoupled from C8Y, and the behaviour is more similar to the one of configurations for the thin-edge device.

>        "type": "<config type 1>"

Reviewer: Having only a configuration type sounds Cumulocity specific. While the generic `configurations` record suggest something more generic.

Author: Please see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236#discussion_r949344383

  for instance `tedge/configuration_change//etc/tedge/mosquitto-conf/c8y-bridge.conf`.
* Since the type of configuration file is used as an MQTT topic name, the characters `#` and `+` cannot be used in a type name.
  If such a character is used in a type name (or in the path of a configuration file without explicit type),
  then the whole plugin configuration `/etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` is considered ill-formed.
* Notifications for child-devices and their external devices are handled differently, as configuration files are fetched/pushed from/to external devices via HTTP filetransfer. Thereby notifications are part of the filetransfer contract (details see section [Fetching/Pushing configuration file](#fetchingpushing-configuration-file-fromto-the-external-device) below).

## Configuration files for child devices

To manage configuration files for child-devices the `c8y_configuration_plugin` aspects as below are relevant:

> * Associating with cloud's child-device twin, i.E. managing supported configuration list of child devices 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Associating with cloud's child-device twin, i.e. managing supported configuration list of child devices 
```

Author: That section way anyway entirely rephrased.

  * an external child device declares its supported config-types to thin-edge via MQTT
  * thin-edge maintaines the supported config-types of each child-device a separate config-file
  * the plugin associates the reported config-type list from the external to its cloud device twin
  * these config-list files per child-device is also managed by Configuration Management feature from C8Y
* Consuming/Providing files from/to thin-edge via network
  * any configuration file exchange to/from the external child device is handled by an HTTP based filetransfer service provided by thin-edge

## Managing Supported Configuration List of child devices

To announce a child-devices configuration management capability child-device provisioning as described in [child-device reference documentation](child-devices.md#1-child-device-provisioning) is used.

The `capability specific JSON object` for `c8y_configuration_plugin` contains all configurations the external device provides.

> Thereby each configuration appears with a `type` and with an optional field `path`.

Reviewer 4: If no configuration file path is mentioned, what is the need for such an entry? Should Every entry be associated with some config file right? Or will there be a default file/path?

Author: That `path` is rest of an discard approach that was accidentally not removed. I removed it now.
Thanks for the hint.

Each time a child-device's TOML is modified (e.g. due to an incoming MQTT message, an incoming new configuration snapshot from the cloud, or a modification by a local process) the `c8y_configuration_plugin` takes care to define all necessary capabilities to the coresponding cloud's child-device twin. These are:
  - declaring _supported operations_ for configuration management: `c8y_UploadConfigFile` and `c8y_DownloadConfigFile`
  - declaring provided _configuration types_

**Declaring 'supported operations'**

To declare supported operations the `c8y_configuration_plugin` uses thin-edge's _Supported Operations API_. Therefore the `c8y_configuration_plugin` creates for each child-device two files under `/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/<childid>`.

Example, for child-device with childid `child1`:

```
/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/child1/c8y_UploadConfigFile
/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/child1/c8y_DownloadConfigFile

> ```

Author: It is now explicitely mentioned:

"Each time a child-device's TOML is modified (e.g. due to an incoming MQTT message, an incoming new configuration snapshot from the cloud, or a modification by a local process) the `c8y_configuration_plugin` takes care to define all necessary capabilities to the coresponding cloud's child-device twin. These are:

-  declaring supported operations for configuration management: `c8y_UploadConfigFile` and `c8y_DownloadConfigFile`
- [...]

[...]"

As soon as those files are created, thin-edge's _Supported Operations API_ takes care to send according supported operation declarations to cloud's child-device twins (see [documentation Supported Operations](../tutorials/supported_operations.md#supported-operations-for-child-devices)).

**Declaring 'provided configuration types'**

For all configuration `types` provided by the external device, the plugin sends an MQTT message to C8Y. Thereby all `types` will be combined in one single message as below:
  - topic: `c8y/s/us/<childid>`
  - payload: `119,<type 1>,<type 2>,<type 3>,...`<br/>
    Example: `119,foo.conf,bar.conf`

> Note that the `c8y_configuration_plugin` does **not** create any child-device twin in the cloud. Instead the clouds child-device twins must be created upfront.

Author: Applied.

## Fetching/Pushing configuration file from/to the external device

To fetch/push configuration files to/from external devices, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` makes use of file-transfer HTTP APIs of the `tedge_agent`.
  
The HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` provides the service to transfer files from external devices to the local filesystem of the thin-edge device's, and vice versa.

>   * `tedge_agent` serves PUT, GET and DELETE requests for temporary file upload, download and removal

Author: The external-device needs anyway to know the IP address of the thin-edge device, since it must connect the MQTT broker. Obvisouly the external-device needs to provide a way to the device operator to configure that (optionally also credentials/certificate, if thin-edge's broker is somehow secured).

Even that is a part the developer/owner of the external-device must consider thats a good information to add to the user journeys / child-device model of our overall child-device reference doc. I will take care to add that.

  for instance `tedge/configuration_change//etc/tedge/mosquitto-conf/c8y-bridge.conf`.
* Since the type of configuration file is used as an MQTT topic name, the characters `#` and `+` cannot be used in a type name.
  If such a character is used in a type name (or in the path of a configuration file without explicit type),
  then the whole plugin configuration `/etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` is considered ill-formed.

> * Notifications for child-devices and their external devices are handled differently, as configuration files are fetched/pushed from/to external devices via HTTP filetransfer. Thereby notifications are part of the filetransfer contract (details see section [Fetching/Pushing configuration file](#fetchingpushing-configuration-file-fromto-the-external-device) below).

Reviewer 2: This statement is definitely valid for external child devices. But, is it true for logical child device processes on the same device? Since they declare local file system paths, I'm assuming that this plugin would update them on config update request. In that case, some notification would be required, right? To notify the "logical child device processes" of that update?

Author: I changed the phrase now to "Notifications for **external child-devices** are handled differently [...]".

> * Notifications for child-devices and their external devices are handled differently, as configuration files are fetched/pushed from/to external devices via HTTP filetransfer. Thereby notifications are part of the filetransfer contract (details see section [Fetching/Pushing configuration file](#fetchingpushing-configuration-file-fromto-the-external-device) below).

Author: I changed now wording: "Notifications for external child-devices are handled differently [...]".

## Configuration files for child devices

To manage configuration files for child-devices the `c8y_configuration_plugin` aspects as below are relevant:

* Associating with cloud's child-device twin, i.E. managing supported configuration list of child devices 

>   * an external child device declares it's supported config-types to thin-edge via MQTT

Author: There is now a terminology section that describes these terms, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236/files#diff-2712a2328b3177d213f13fff299592fad26c8defd1c0b704400b93c064d95ba8

  * thin-edge maintaines the supported config-types of each child-device a separate config-file
  * the plugin is the one that associates the reported config-type list from the external to it's cloud device twin

>   * these config-list files per child-device is also managed by Configuration Management feature from C8Y

Author: Replaced C8Y in text, see https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/9848733536b8788a963782b865652fb8f5c85f46

* Consuming/Providing files from/to thin-edge via network
  * any configuration file exchange to/from the external child device is handled by an HTTP based filetransfer service provided by thin-edge

## Managing Supported Configuration List of child devices 

> The external device sends an MQTT message to `tedge/meta/plugin/configuration/<childid>` to announce it's configuration management capability to thin-edge. That MQTT message contains all configurations the external device provides. Thereby each configuration appears with a `type` and with an optional field `path`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The child device (external or logical) sends an MQTT message to `tedge/meta/plugin/configuration/<childid>` to announce it's configuration management capability to thin-edge.
That MQTT message contains all configurations the external device provides.
Thereby each configuration appears with a `type` and with an optional field `path`.
```

The MQTT message is as below:

```json
{
   "configurations": [
     {
       "type": "<config type 1>",
       "path": "</path/to/file/file 1>"
     },
     {
       "type": "<config type 2>",
       "path": "</path/to/file/file 2>"
     },
     ...
   ]
}
```

Example:
```json
{
   "configurations": [
     {
       "type": "foo.conf",
       "path": "/etc/child1/foo.conf"
     },
     {
       "type": "bar.conf",
       "path": "/etc/child1/bar.conf"
     }
   ]
}
```

> If path is specified, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` consumes/provides the configuration-file from/to the given local filesystem path. If the field `path` is not given, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` make use of the HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` to consume/provide the configuration-file (see [section below](#details-to-aspect-2-filetransfer-fromto-external-device) for more details about HTTP filetransfer). The first case is intended for local processes (running on the thin-edge device) that represent a child-device, and the latter case is intended for external devices.

Reviewer 2: Please split the sentences in this paragraph and next into multiple lines.

Author: With removing the field `path` that entire paragraph was removed.

> 

Reviewer 2: From the above paragraph it's not clear that you expect **only** the "logical child devices" running on the thin-edge devices itself, to include the `path` field in its payload and **not** an "external child device".

Author: What do you mean with "logical child devices"? A local process (running on the thin-edge device) that represent a child-device?

Reviewer 2: Yes. Just a shorter version of " local process running on the thin-edge device that represent a child-device". It would be nice if we have a clear terminology for such child device processes in the main child device document that we can use throughout our documentation.

Author: With removing the field path that entire paragraph was removed.

Author: There is now a terminology section, that also explains the term "logical child devices", see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/blob/65b88e1bd617b37478820d74a939379cb4972df5/docs/src/references/child-devices.md#terminology

Whenever the `c8y_configuration_plugin` receivces that MQTT message it stores all contained information to a child-specific TOML file in `/etc/tedge/c8y/<childid>/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml`. When the file already exists it will be replaced with the new content. The format of that TOML file is according to section [Configuration](#configuration) above. Each individual child's TOML file is stored in a subfolder, where the subfolder name is the `childid`.

Example:

```bash
    $ tree /etc/tedge/c8y/
    /etc/tedge/c8y/
    ├── c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
    ├── child1
    │   └── c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
    └── child2
        └── c8y-configuration-plugin.toml    
```

> The `c8y_configuration_plugin` adds per child-device the file `/etc/tedge/c8y/<childid>/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` implicitely to the child-device's config listed. So the list can always be configured from the cloud. The `type` for this self configuration file is `c8y-configuration-plugin`.

Reviewer 2: There's one additional enhancement possible here that will give more control to the child device on this config list file content. If the child device wants to keep the config list in some other format other than toml, let the device declare this special config type `c8y-configuration-plugin` in the bootstrap message that it sends. The device can then map this type to any file with the list of supported config types in any format of its choice. If the child declares this special type in its bootstrap message, we'll skip the creation of this `c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` file on the device and let the device manage it on its own.

Author: I will put that to a future extension list.

Each time a child-device's TOML is modified (e.g. due to an incoming MQTT message, an incoming new configuration snapshot from the cloud, or a modification by a local process) the `c8y_configuration_plugin` takes care to define all necessary capabilities to the coresponding cloud's child-device twin. These are:
  - declaring _supported operations_ for configuration management: `c8y_UploadConfigFile` and `c8y_DownloadConfigFile`
  - declaring provided _configuration types_

**Declaring 'supported operations'**

> To declare supported operations the `c8y_configuration_plugin` uses thin-edge's _Supported Operations API_. Therefore the `c8y_configuration_plugin` creates for each child-device two files under `/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/<childid>`.

Reviewer 2: To make it explicit, we should mention that these operation files are also created by the plugin on receipt of that initial config list message.

Author: Now it is explicitely mentioned:

"[...] Each time a child-device's TOML is modified (e.g. due to an incoming MQTT message, an incoming new configuration snapshot from the cloud, or a modification by a local process) the c8y_configuration_plugin takes care to define all necessary capabilities to the coresponding cloud's child-device twin. [...]"

Example, for child-device with childid `child1`:

```
/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/child1/c8y_UploadConfigFile
/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/child1/c8y_DownloadConfigFile
```

As soon as those files are created, thin-edge's _Supported Operations API_ takes care to send according supported operation declarations to cloud's child-device twins (see [documentation Supported Operations](../tutorials/supported_operations.md#supported-operations-for-child-devices)).

**Declaring 'provided configuration types'**

For all configuration `types` provided by the external device, the plugin sends an MQTT message to C8Y. Thereby all `types` will be combined in one single message as below:
  - topic: `c8y/s/us/<childid>`

>   - payload: `119,<type 1>,<type 2>,<type 3>,...`<br/>

Reviewer 2: You need to explicitly mention that this payload is derived from the types listed in the child device's `c8y-config-plugin.toml`.

Author: Explicitly added type c8y-config-plugin:

"[...] Thereby all types of the child device's c8y-config-plugin.toml with the added type c8y-config-plugin to represent the config list TOML file itself will be combined in one single message [...]"

    Example: `119,foo.conf,bar.conf`

Note that the `c8y_configuration_plugin` does **not** create any child-device twin in the cloud. Instead the clouds child-device twins must be created upfront.

## Fetching/Pushing configuration file from/to the external device

> To fetching/pushing configuration files to/from external devices, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` make use of the HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` is used (see section ....).

Reviewer 2: This sentence is duplicated below as well.

Author: I removed that duplicate

> To fetching/pushing configuration files to/from external devices, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` make use of the HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` is used (see section ....).

Author: Applied.

> To fetching/pushing configuration files to/from external devices, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` make use of the HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` is used (see section ....).

Author: Applied.

> To fetching/pushing configuration files to/from external devices, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` make use of the HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To fetch/push configuration files to/from external devices, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` makes use of file-transfer HTTP APIs of the `tedge_agent`.
```

  
The HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` provides the service to transfer files from external devices to the local filesystem of the thin-edge device's, and vice versa.

>   * `tedge_agent` serves PUT and GET requests for temporary file up/downloads

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `tedge_agent` serves PUT, GET and DELETE requests for temporary file upload, download and removal
```

## Fetching configuration file from child device to cloud

A configuration file snapshot is fetched from an external device as illustrated below.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant External Device
    participant Tedge Agent
    participant C8Y Cfg Plugin
    participant C8Y Cloud

        C8Y Cloud->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 1: ConfigUploadRequest (type="bar1", childid="child1")
        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>External Device: 2: MQTT notification for "child1": Requst to upload config type "bar1"

        External Device->>Tedge Agent: 3: HTTP PUT /tedge/tmpfiles (content of config-file "bar1")
        Tedge Agent->>External Device: 4: HTTP Response, contains tmp-URL, used to access uploaded file

        External Device->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 5: MQTT Notification: file uploaded to <tmp-URL>
        
        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>Tedge Agent: 6: HTTP GET <tmp-URL>
        Tedge Agent->>Tedge Agent: 6.1: Remove tmp-file from local filesystem
        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>C8Y Cloud: 7: Send downloaded config-file (device="child1", type="bar1") 

        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 8: Remove downloaded file from local filesystem
```

>   1) At some point C8Y cloud sends a ConfigUploadRequest for type `bar.conf` for `child1` arrives at C8Y config plugin.

Author: Replaced C8Y in text, see https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/3515f2769ae3594538fc8c36d39208bb68b986de

    The format of C8Y SmartREST message for config retrieval operation is: `526,<childid>,<config type>`. See [C8Y SmartREST doc](https://cumulocity.com/guides/reference/smartrest-two/#upload-configuration-file-with-type-526)<br/>
    Example: `526,child1,bar.conf`

  2) C8Y config plugin: notifies the external device `child1` via MQTT to upload it's current configuration to the thin-edge device

    Topic: `tedge/configuration/req/retrieve/{config type}/{childid}`<br/>

>     Example: `tedge/configuration/req/retrieve/bar.conf/child1`<br/>  

Reviewer 5: Not correctly formatted.

    TODO: Investigate and decide about topic structure and payload in scheduled prototype (https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1307) 
         
  3) external device child1: Uploads configuration file to the thin-edge device with the HTTP filetransfer feature.
  
    HTTP PUT request: `http://<ip address of thin-edge devicee>/tedge/tmpfiles`
    
  4) The response from the HTTP filetransfer feature contains a _temporary URL_, that is later used to uniquely access that uploaded file.<br/>
     Example for a _temporary URL_: `/tedge/tmpfiles/<random string>`

  5) external device child1: notifies the the plugin via MQTT about succeeded upload and the _temporary URL_.
 
    Topic: `tedge/configuration/res/retrieve/{config type}/{childid}`<br/>

>     Example: `tedge/configuration/res/retrieve/bar.conf/child1`<br/>

Reviewer 5: Not correctly formatted.

  
  6) C8Y config plugin: recognizes the MQTT notification about the uploaded file and the _temprary URL_, 
                       and downloads the file using HTTP the filetransfer with the _temporary URL_ to some temporary location.
  
    Example for HTTP GET request: `http://<ip address of thin-edge device>/<temporary URL>`

  7) C8Y config plugin: sends the downloaded file to C8Y

  8) C8Y config plugin: removes the downloaded file from temporary location
  

## Pushing configuration file update to child device from cloud

A configuration file snapshot is pushed to an external device as illustrated below.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant External Device
    participant Tedge Agent
    participant C8Y Cfg Plugin
    participant C8Y Cloud
    participant WebSpace
    

        C8Y Cloud->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 1: ConfigDownloadRequest (type="bar1", childid="child1", url="some.url")

        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>WebSpace: 2: Download new config-file (url)
        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>Tedge Agent: 3: HTTP PUT /tedge/tmpfiles (content of new config-file)

>         Tedge Agent->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 4: HTTP Response, contains tmp-URL, used to access uploaded file

Reviewer 5: It is response, so dashed line fits better.
```suggestion
        Tedge Agent-->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 4: HTTP Response, contains tmp-URL, used to access uploaded file
```

Author: Applied.

     The format of C8Y SmartREST message for config send operation is: `524,<childid>,<URL>,<config type>`. See [C8Y SmartREST doc](https://cumulocity.com/guides/reference/smartrest-two/#download-configuration-file-with-type-524)<br/>
    Example: `524,child1,http://www.my.url,bar.conf`
  2) C8Y config plugin: downloads the file based on the URL received from C8Y, to some temporary location

  3) C8Y config plugin: uploads the file to the thin-edge filetransfer feature, and removes it from the temporary location
  
    HTTP PUT request: `http://<ip address of thin-edge devicee>/tedge/tmpfiles`
    
  4) The response from the HTTP filetransfer feature contains a _temporary URL_, that is later used to uniquely access that uploaded file.<br/>
    Example for a _temporary URL_: `/tedge/tmpfiles/<random string>`

  5) C8Y config plugin: notifies the external device `child1` via MQTT to download the new configuration from the thin-edge device with the _temporary URL_.

    Topic: `tedge/configuration/req/send/{config type}/{childid}`<br/>
    Example: `tedge/configuration/req/send/bar.conf/child1`<br/>  

>     Payload: ` <temporary URL> `<br/>

Reviewer 5: Not correctly formatted.

Author: Corrected.

    TODO: Investigate and decide about topic structure and payload in scheduled prototype (https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1307) 

  6) external device child1: Downloads configuration file from the thin-edge device with the HTTP filetransfer feature and the _temporary URL_, and filetransfer removes the file from it's local filesystem folder.
  
    Example for HTTP GET request: `http://<ip address of thin-edge device>/<temporary URL>`
    
  7) external device child1: applies the new configuration and notifies the the plugin via MQTT about success.
 
    Topic: `tedge/configuration/res/send/{config type}/{childid}`<br/>
    Example: `tedge/configuration/res/send/bar.conf/child1`<br/>
       
    TODO: Investigate and decide about topic structure and payload in scheduled prototype (https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1307). Unhappy paths also to be considered here.

  8) C8Y config plugin: recognizes the MQTT notification and sends the result to C8Y.

    TO-BE-DEFINED:
    
      * Decide which error paths to be considered.
      * Decide if any timeout to be considerd when waiting for upload notification from external device.

> 

Reviewer 2: It might be worth highlighting the fact that the supported config list updates are also pushed from the cloud to the child device using this same mechanism where a an updated `c8y-config-plugin.toml` is pushed to the device with the type `c8y-config-plugin`, and the child device is expected to update its own config list with the contents of this file.

Author: Just to be clear: Are you talking about the per child file `/etc/tedge/c8y/<childid>/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml`, that is implicitely added to each child-device's config list? And especially about the fact that in case of any change of that file (whether from cloud or a local process) an update request is sent to the external device (similar as for all other config types)?

Reviewer 2: Exactly.

* Consuming/Providing files from/to thin-edge via network
  * any configuration file exchange to/from the external child device is handled by an HTTP based file transfer service provided by thin-edge

## Managing Supported Configuration List of child devices

* The `c8y_configuration_plugin` stores and reads the list of supported configuration files for each child-device from a TOML file; similar to whats described in section [Configuration](#configuration) above. Thereby for each child-device an individual TOML file is used.
* A child-device can also announce its supported configuration files itself to the `c8y_configuration_plugin` via MQTT. The `c8y_configuration_plugin` uses the information received via MQTT to store it into the child-devices individual TOML file.

Each child-devices configuration TOML file is expected in a subfolder, where the subfolder name is treated as `childid`.

Example:

```
$ tree /etc/tedge/c8y/
/etc/tedge/c8y/
├── c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
├── child1
│   └── c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
└── child2
    └── c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
```

> In that example the plugin serves configuration management for the thin-edge device it-self, for a child-device with childid `child1` and for a child-device with childid `child2`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In that example, the plugin serves configuration management for the thin-edge device itself as well as for child-devices with child-id `child1` and `child2`. 
```

Similar to section [Configuration](#configuration) above, each child-device configuration file is defined by a record with:

> * The full `path` to the file. That path is treated as path pointing into the remote filesystem of the child-device.

Reviewer 2: > pointing into the remote filesystem of the child-device

Not quite true for a local child device agent as the path would be something on the thin-edge file system itself.

Author: I improved that wording. See https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/d3259f816b4ad1947a60c6382bcf22d4fa7be720

> * An optional configuration `type`. If not provided, the `path` is used as `type`.

Reviewer 2: Not optional, as this field is not optional for Cumulocity and this plugin, in its current form, is a Cumulocity specific plugin. This `type` is essential to map the `configurationType` received in incoming SmartREST messages (524 and 526).

Author: Its is the same behaviour is for the thin-edge device here:

    "If not provided, the `path` is used as `type`."

* The fields `user`, `group` and octal `mode` (as introduced in section [Configuration](#configuration) above) are not supported for child-devices.  

> The `c8y_configuration_plugin` make use of the HTTP file transfer feature of the `tedge_agent` to consume/provide the configuration-file from/to the child-device's remote filesystem `path` (see [section below](#details-to-aspect-2-filetransfer-fromto-external-device) for more details about HTTP file transfer).

Reviewer 2: Isn't it wrong/misleading to to say that the plugin would provide the config file to the child device's *remote filesystem `path`*? This plugin can't write a file to a remote file system on its own. It just delivers the file to the child device agent and expects it to write it at the mentioned `path`.

Author: I improved that wording. See https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/ed3c74534319c7dd3c60909d6e5856a39b2fb100

> The `c8y_configuration_plugin` adds per child-device the file `/etc/tedge/c8y/<childid>/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` implicitely to the child-devices configuration file list. So the list can always be configured from the cloud. The `type` for this self configuration file is `c8y-configuration-plugin`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `c8y_configuration_plugin` implicitly creates and maintains a separate `/etc/tedge/c8y/<childid>/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` file for each connected child device, with its supported configuration list.
This file is also listed as a supported configuration file of the child device in the cloud,
so that the supported configuration list for the child device can always be configured from the cloud.
The implicit `type` for this file is `c8y-configuration-plugin`.
```

> ### Announcing list of supported configuration files by the child-device itself

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Child device declaring its supported configuration list to thin-edge

```

> A child-device can use the child-device provisioning API to announce its supported configuration files itself via MQTT to the `c8y_configuration_plugin`. For details about the child-device provisioning API see the [child-device reference documentation](child-devices.md#1-child-device-provisioning).

Reviewer 2: Leave an empty line before starting this line.

Author: That section was anyway changed. Empty line in there.

The provisioning API's `capability specific JSON object` for `c8y_configuration_plugin` contains all configuration files the child-device provides. Each configuration file is defined by a `path` and an optional `type`, that will be both assigned to the fields `path` and `type` of the child-devices TOML file (see section above). 

The MQTT message is as below:

```json
{
   "configurations": [
     {
       "path": "<filepath 1>",
       "type": "<config type 1>"
     },
     {
       "path": "<filepath 2>",
       "type": "<config type 2>"
     },
     ...
   ]
}
```

Example:
```json
{
   "configurations": [
     {
       "path": "/path/to/file/foo.conf"
       "type": "foo.conf"
     },
     {
       "path": "/another/path/to/file/bar.conf"     
     }
   ]
}
```

> Whenever the `c8y_configuration_plugin` receivces that MQTT message it stores all contained information to the child-devices individual TOML file in `/etc/tedge/c8y/<childid>/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml`. When the file already exists it will be replaced with the new content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the `c8y_configuration_plugin` receives these MQTT messages, the contents of that `configurations` key are parsed and persisted into the child-device specific TOML file at `/etc/tedge/c8y/<childid>/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml`.
If the file already exists, it will be replaced with the new content.
```

Each time a child-device's TOML is modified (e.g. due to an incoming MQTT message, an incoming new configuration snapshot from the cloud, or a modification by a local process) the `c8y_configuration_plugin` takes care to define all necessary capabilities to the coresponding cloud's child-device twin. These are:

>   - declaring _supported operations_ for configuration management: `c8y_UploadConfigFile` and `c8y_DownloadConfigFile`

Reviewer 2: The supported operations file need to be declared only once, right? The very first time this TOML file is created. Only the `supported configuration types` need to be updated on every update of this TOML file.

Author: I changed wording. See https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/843cfeea9d24518b4a03597c56c53ccedaa3e5ae

  - declaring provided _configuration types_

**Declaring 'supported operations'**

> To declare supported operations the `c8y_configuration_plugin` uses thin-edge's _Supported Operations API_. Therefore the `c8y_configuration_plugin` creates for each child-device two files under `/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/<childid>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To declare supported operations for the child device, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` uses thin-edge's _Supported Operations API_.
To declare configuration management as a supported operation, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` creates two empty files named `c8y_UploadConfigFile` and `c8y_DownloadConfigFile` under `/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/<childid>` for each child-device:
```

Example, for child-device with childid `child1`:

```
/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/child1/c8y_UploadConfigFile
/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/child1/c8y_DownloadConfigFile
```

> As soon as those files are created, thin-edge's _Supported Operations API_ takes care to send according supported operation declarations to cloud's child-device twins (see [documentation Supported Operations](../tutorials/supported_operations.md#supported-operations-for-child-devices)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As soon as those files are created, thin-edge's _Supported Operations API_ takes care of sending the supported operation declarations to the child-device cloud twins (see [documentation Supported Operations](../tutorials/supported_operations.md#supported-operations-for-child-devices)).
```

**Declaring 'provided configuration types'**

> For all configuration `types` provided by the child-device, the plugin sends an MQTT message to C8Y. Thereby all `types` of the child device's `c8y-config-plugin.toml` with the added type `c8y-config-plugin` to represent the config list TOML file itself will be combined in one single message:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For all configuration `types` specified in the child-device's `c8y-config-plugin.toml`, the plugin sends the [supported configurations SmartREST message](https://cumulocity.com/guides/10.11.0/reference/smartrest-two/#set-supported-configurations-119) to Cumulocity.
In addition to the `types` specified in the child device's `c8y-config-plugin.toml`, the special `c8y-configuration-plugin` type which represents the TOML file itself is also included in that message:
```

  - topic: `c8y/s/us/<childid>`
  - payload: `119,c8y-config-plugin,<type 1>,<type 2>,<type 3>,...`<br/>
    Example: `119,c8y-config-plugin,foo.conf,bar.conf`

Note that the `c8y_configuration_plugin` does **not** create any child-device twin in the cloud. Instead, the cloud child-device twins must be created upfront.

## Fetching/Pushing configuration file from/to the external device

To fetch/push configuration files to/from external devices, the `c8y_configuration_plugin` makes use of file transfer HTTP APIs of the `tedge_agent`.
  

> The HTTP file transfer feature of the `tedge_agent` provides the service to transfer files from external devices to the local filesystem of the thin-edge device's, and vice versa.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The HTTP file transfer feature of the `tedge_agent` provides the service to transfer files from external devices to the local filesystem of the thin-edge device, and vice versa.
```

  * `tedge_agent` serves PUT, GET and DELETE requests for temporary file upload, download and removal

>     * a temporary file can be uploaded with an HTTP PUT request to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/tmpfiles`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * a temporary file can be uploaded with an HTTP PUT request to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/configuration_snapshot/{file-id}`,
```
Update this URL in all the references below.

Author: I think the URL you suggested here is not aligned with the one of the prototype's doc. There it is `/tedge/config_snapshot/{file-id}`, instead of `/tedge/configuration_snapshot/{file-id}`.

Is changed all HTTP URLs to the one of the prototype's doc.

>       where the HTTP response contains a _temporary URL_.

Reviewer 2: The response doesn't matter anymore, as the URL contains the `file-id`.

Author: That section is now changed, according to the URL with included `file-id`.

    * a temporary file can be downloaded with an HTTP GET request to `http://<ip address of thin-edge device>/<temporary URL>`

## Fetching configuration file from child device to cloud

A configuration file snapshot is fetched from an external device as illustrated below.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram

>     participant External Device

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    participant Child Device
```
Now that we have established the "child device" term that covers both "external" and "logical" child devices.

Author: Replaced term. See 

https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/8356956d2937cc148b336646aecb248d8812ef7b

and

https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/48e1dc30b84ed15c1fcb96b4830da2f62e35a8e6

    participant Tedge Agent
    participant C8Y Cfg Plugin
    participant C8Y Cloud

        C8Y Cloud->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 1: ConfigUploadRequest (type="foo.conf", childid="child1")
        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 2: Generate random "file-id"
        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>External Device: 3: MQTT notification for "child1": Request to upload config file "/path/to/file/foo.conf", to url "<file-id>" 

        External Device->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 4: MQTT notification: Operation Status upload config "Executing" 

> 

Reviewer 2: There's one missing interaction here:
`C8Y Cfg Plugin->>C8Y Cloud: Forward executing status to cloud device twin`

Author: was now added

  8) C8Y config plugin: sends a delete request to the HTTP file transfer with the `file-id`
     * Example for HTTP DELETE request: `http://<ip address of thin-edge device>/tmpfiles/<file-id>`

  9) C8Y config plugin: sends the downloaded file to C8Y

  10) C8Y config plugin: removes the downloaded file from temporary location
  

## Pushing configuration file update to child device from cloud

A configuration file snapshot is pushed to an external device as illustrated below.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant External Device
    participant Tedge Agent
    participant C8Y Cfg Plugin
    participant C8Y Cloud
    

        C8Y Cloud->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 1: ConfigDownloadRequest (type="foo.conf", childid="child1", url="some.url")
        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>C8Y Cloud: 2: Download new config-file (url)

        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 3: Generate random "file-id"     
        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>Tedge Agent: 4: HTTP PUT /tedge/tmpfiles/<file-id> (content of new config-file)

        C8Y Cfg Plugin->>External Device: 5: MQTT notification for "child1": Requst to download config file "/path/to/file/foo.conf" on url "file-id"

>         External Device->>C8Y Cfg Plugin: 6: MQTT notification: Operation Status upload config "Executing" 

Reviewer 2: Forwarding the `Executing` status update to cloud is missing here.

Author: was now added

Example:

```
$ tree /etc/tedge/c8y/
/etc/tedge/c8y/
├── c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
├── child1
│   └── c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
└── child2
    └── c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
```

Here the plugin serves configuration management for the thin-edge device it-self, for a child-device with childid `child1` and for a child-device with childid `child2`. The contents of all three configuration files follow the details described in section [Configuration](#configuration) above.

## Details to Aspect 2: Filetransfer from/to external device

For aspect (2) there is a proposal, followed by another alternative proposal. Decision has to been taken which proposal to follow.

### Proposal: Filetransfer provided by tedge_agent, based on HTTP

To provide/consume configuration files to/from external devices, the HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` is used.
  
The HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` provides the service to transfer files from external devices to the local filesystem of the thin-edge device's, and vice versa.

  * `tedge_agent` serves PUT and GET requests on `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/<path>`

>     * `path` is chosen by the external-device; it may contain folders (e.g. `foo/bar/config-file.conf`)

Reviewer 2: I hope you're gonna remove this contract where the paths are chosen by the external device and moving to the temporary file based approach.

Author: I introduced now a _temporary file up/downloads_ for the HTTP filetransfer feature. So the external device has no more to deal with paths.

    * The configuration file's record `path` is treated as path of the _current_ version of a configuration file (see to section 'Configuration' above).
    * The configuration file's record `desired` can be used to define the path of the _desired_ version of a configuration file. If `desired` is not defined, then `path` is treated as _desired_ version also.
    * On c8y read request for a configuration, `c8y_configuration_plugin` returns the `current` file content.
    * On c8y write request for a configuration, `c8y_configuration_plugin` updates the `desired` file content and waits for the `current` content to be updated to return the operation status to cumulocity.  
    * The current behavior of c8y_configuration_plugin can be simulated with desired = current = path when only a path is provided.

Example Plugin Config:
```shell
$ cat /etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
files = [
    { type = 'bar.conf', child_id = 'child1', current = '/http-root/config/current/child1/bar.conf', desired = '/http-root/config/desired/child1/bar.conf' } }
  ]
```

Example Flow:

**Start Behaviour:**
  * external device child1: starts

>   * external device child1: sends all its config files with HTTP PUT requests to the thin-edge device; 

Author: It is not a good idea to let _all_ external device send _all_ their configuration files on startup to the thin-edge device, and then keeping all those configuration files permanently on the thin-edge device to deliver those on any cloud retrieval. That has drawbacks as below:

1. With large number of external devices and configuration files comsumed disc-space on the thin-edge device can explode.
2. Since thin-edge will not ask the external device in case of config-file retrieval from cloud, thin-edge will deliver the last known config-file snapshot to the cloud, without any clue whether that snapshot is still valid. Imagine a config change has occured on the configuration in the external device, but due to some temporary or permanent network issue that new config-version does not arrive at the thin-edge device. The cloud-site will never be informed, but on config retrieval it gets the config-snapshot from before as entirely valid and active.

A better way would be thin-edge asking the external device on purpose (i.E. each time a config retrieval from the cloud arrives).

Author: Introduced now that pattern, where the plugin ask external devices on purpose for configuration files, instead keeping all configuration files of all external device.

  for instance `tedge/configuration_change//etc/tedge/mosquitto-conf/c8y-bridge.conf`.
* Since the type of configuration file is used as an MQTT topic name, the characters `#` and `+` cannot be used in a type name.
  If such a character is used in a type name (or in the path of a configuration file without explicit type),
  then the whole plugin configuration `/etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` is considered ill-formed.

## Configuration files for child devices

To manage configuration files for child-devices the `c8y_configuration_plugin` supports two aspects:
1) Allowing to associate a configuration file with a cloud's child-device twin
2) Allowing to consume/provide a configuration file from/to an external device via network

> **Details to Aspect 1: Associating to cloud's child-device twin**

Author: The term _child device_ is a bit weak, cause it could mean the twin in the cloud, or some representation within thin-edge, or an external device that represents the child-device. Therefor I have tried to avoid using the term _child device_, but instead used _external device_ or _child device twin_.

I am currently about to create a unique definition of terminology as part of an overall documentation for the child-device topic. I will link that document here in that plugin spec.

For aspect (1) the plugin provides the field `childid` for all records in the `c8y_configuration_plugin` configuration (reference to section 'Configuration' above). That field is interpreted as unique child-device id and the plugin associates the record's configuration file with corresponding cloud's child-device twin. If not provided the configuration file is associated with cloud's thin-edge device twin.

Example:
```shell
$ cat /etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
files = [
    { path = '/etc/tedge/tedge.toml', type = 'tedge.toml' },              # appears in the cloud on the thin-edge device

>     { path = '/etc/child1/foo.conf', type = 'foo', childid = 'child1'  }  # appears in the cloud on the child-device 'child1'

Reviewer 4: So, it can be some random path?.

>     { path = '/etc/child1/foo.conf', type = 'foo', childid = 'child1'  }  # appears in the cloud on the child-device 'child1'

Author: For child-device support there are two aspects (see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236/files#diff-0d430102a9a7f4e4431390a85806a990b51d2143dbc97bf596a267c893e1f693R171-R175).

That example shows how to associate a config-file to a child-device twin (Aspect 1). And as Rina said above, in that example the config-file is located in the local filesystem of the thin-edge device.

  ]
```

> Note that the `c8y_configuration_plugin` does not create any child-device twin in the cloud. Instead the clouds child-device twin must be created upfront. However the plugin takes care to set all capabilities (supported operations, config-types) on that child-device twin in the cloud in the same way as it does for the thin-edge device.

Reviewer: This needs to be details. What are the responsibilities of this plugin regarding supported operations, config-types ...

Author: Details are added now, see section [Declaration of Capabilities for Child-Devices](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/blob/a6af33a1aaa3dbc8b8cfec94c1d81d093c09ff7f/docs/src/references/c8y-configuration-management.md#declaration-of-capabilities-for-child-devices)

> Note that the `c8y_configuration_plugin` does not create any child-device twin in the cloud. Instead the clouds child-device twin must be created upfront. However the plugin takes care to set all capabilities (supported operations, config-types) on that child-device twin in the cloud in the same way as it does for the thin-edge device.

Author: > **a. Declaring supported operations for child devices.**
> 
> We don't have the existing mechanism how to report the supported operations to child device. Need to be clarified.

Good point. The operations handling in general must be extended to support child-devices. Since the C8Y configuration plugin runs as daemon and uses operations handling just to declare supported operations to the C8Y, it would be enough to just add a way to define child-ids for those operation files.

A way could be to put all operation files in a subfolder, where the name of the subfolder is the child-id.

Example, for child-device with child-id `child1`:

`/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/child1/c8y_UploadConfigFile`
`/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/child1/c8y_DownloadConfigFile`

**Details to Aspect 2: Consuming/providing configuration files via network**

> For aspect (2) there are two proposals as below. Decision has to been taken which proposal to follow.

Author: That comment is collect pros and cons for all raised proposals.

List of the proposals:

**Proposal 1:** MQTT retain message (from the spec in that section, see [that line](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236/files#diff-0d430102a9a7f4e4431390a85806a990b51d2143dbc97bf596a267c893e1f693R195)

**Proposal 2:** HTTP serviced by C8Y Config Plugin (from the spec in that section, see [that line](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236/files#diff-0d430102a9a7f4e4431390a85806a990b51d2143dbc97bf596a267c893e1f693R228)

**Proposal 3:** HTTP serviced by tedge_agent (from Didiers comment, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236#discussion_r926708254)

Author: **Proposal 1:**
Pros: 
* simple to implement

Cons: 
* can consume much of RAM in case of large files or even many childs with many small files (note those retain messages are hold all along)

**Proposal 2:**
Cons:
* less re-use since implemented into/explecitely for the C8Y Config Plugin 
* far to complex to implement just for the C8Y Config Plugin

**Proposal 3:**
Pro:
* high re-use for (mostly) all thin-edge features (as logging, sw man)

Cons:
* Embedded Device has to deal with HTTP

Author: > I feel the plugin should handle file upload/download by itself. Maybe it needs the support of the MQTT bridge just to get the JWT token right?.

I feel your comment faces the file upload/download from the thin-edge device towards C8Y (the noth side). Instead those proposals from above are facing the file upload/download from the thin-edge device towards an external device (the south side); that could be a PLC or any other kind of Embedded Device.

So it is nothing about C8Y and it's JWT token, but about a file-transfer mechanism from thin-edge to any external device. Therefore the proposal 3 (HTTP serviced by tedge_agent) is now in focus.

**Proposal 1:**

The `c8y_configuration_plugin` configuration's record field `path` (reference to section 'Configuration' above) can be prefixed with "mqtt://". Then it's value is treated as MQTT topic structure, where another process/external device is expected to provide/consume the configuration file.

> The `c8y_configuration_plugin` expects the process/external device always putting the latest config file as retain message to the MQTT topic `{path}`. Then the plugin consumes that retain message whenever a cloud request comes in.

Reviewer: If I understand correctly, the *same* topic is used by the child device to send its config and by this plugin to send updates. This is really fragile and will lead to race condition.

We need to distinguish the current configuration declared by the child device from the desired configuration pushed from the cloud. We need to make this distinction whatever the protocol we use (MQTT or HTTP).

Author: I agree, that definitely makes sense.

Author: > If we plan to use the `MQTT`, hope the size of these files will be within the `MQTT` supported `threshold size`. Else we need to fall back to HTTP.

@PradeepKiruvale , are you refering to C8Y's 16KiB limit on MQTT? Instead that section is about the file-transfer channel between the thin-edge device and the external device. So C8Y is not involved, but mosquitto and the MQTT clients running on thin-edge and the external device.

- mosquitto on the thin-edge device:
allows the MQTT max payload size of 256 MB (if it is not reduce with the mosquitto's configuration 'message_size_limit')

- the MQTT client on the thin-edge device:
'rumqttc' we use in thin-edge has a default max package size of 10 kB (as long as I can see in it's doc). However that can be changed by configuration (see https://docs.rs/rumqttc/0.13.0/rumqttc/struct.MqttOptions.html#method.set_max_packet_size). Honestly I didn't found any upper limit for that configuration in the documentation - so I am not sure if there is one, or if it allows the MQTT standard max-size  of 256 MB.

- the MQTT client on the external device:
that is in hands of the customer, we can never know.

To summarize:

Technically I do not see an issue according to the max MQTT payload size. It allows to transfer tens or hundrets of MB, but a common configuration file would be usually much smaller.

On the other hand I see two other drawbacks:
1) Since that MQTT proposal needs to retain those message, a large fleed of child-device with many small config files could lead to a heavy consumption of RAM memory, cause all these retain message are kept in RAM for the whole lifecycle of the configuration files.

2) Even we expect configuration files have a smaller size than the payload limit of MQTT, other thin-edge features that will also need file-transfer from/to external devices (e.g. Software Management) might not comply to those small file size limits. That means would need to introduce another interfaces for those features.

I added both points from above to the pros/cons list: https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236#discussion_r927035235

Example Plugin Config:
```shell
$ cat /etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
files = [
    { path = '/etc/tedge/tedge.toml', type = 'tedge.toml' },
    { path = 'mqtt://configs/bar.conf', type = 'bar.conf', childid = 'child1'  }
  ]
```

Example Flow:

**Start Behaviour:**
  * external device `child1`: starts
  * external device `child1`: publishs all its config files to MQTT (with retain); Example: Publish to topic `configs/bar.conf`

**Device-to-Cloud Behaviour:**

>   * at some point a config retrieval for type `bar.conf` for `child1` arrives at C8Y config plugin

Reviewer: This document behind a reference, I would expect the format of this request.

Author: That is the SmartREST request coming from C8Y, that instructs the plugin to upload a config file. So the format of that request is given by the C8Y API, as I can see SmartREST messages 526.

Reviewer: Yes, but it would be good to have here the description of this 526 SmartRest message. This is a reference doc and users/testers/devs should not have to figure out themselves the details searching the documentation of cumulocity.

Author: Added description of C8Y SmartREST messages. See https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/2f5deb463a1d5ccafc86c458c3815ae90024d9ff

  * C8Y config plugin: subscribes to `configs/bar.conf` and gets immediately the config file content from the retained message

>   * C8Y config plugin: sends the recived MQTT payload as config file to C8Y<br/><br/>

Reviewer 5: For parent device, the plugin uploads a file via HTTP. How the topic and MQTT payload to c8y will look like?

Author: Sorry, that sentence is missleading. I was trying to say, that the config file was received on MQTT, and is after it is sent to C8Y. So MQTT was meant for the _receiving_ part. Lets simplify that sentence.

```suggestion
  * C8Y config plugin: sends the config file to C8Y<br/><br/>
```

Author: > Just to clarify my understanding, the request could be for `upload/download` comes via MQTT but the actual `upload/download` of the file happens via HTTP right?.

We are talking here about two things: 

1) The file-transfer between the thin-edge device and C8Y
2) The file-transfer between the thin-edge device and an external-device (that represents the child-device)

Part 1 will be not changed for child-device support. It is currently HTTP and we are not about to change that.

Part 2 is currently not possible, cause the C8Y Config Plugin expects all config-files in the local filesystem. Here we need a way to transfer files from/to the external device. That section focuses on that file-transfer channel.

Please note, that section is one proposal for the file-transfer channel. There is also another proposal in that document (see "Proposal 2") , and also another proposal in the comments (see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236#discussion_r926708254)

    NOTE: The responsibility to assure that the latest config file content is on the MQTT bus is always on the process/external device.

> When there is no retain message the plugin sends an error to the cloud on an every incoming config retrieval request.

Reviewer: This where using retain messages is fragile. There is no way to know that there is no retained messages expect by using a timeout.

Author: That MQTT-based proposal was anyway removed as deprecated from the spec (see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236/commits/75545e1f7bfaa5b305e3a9ba51741fe5b2c1ef4f).

**Cloud-to-Device Behaviour:**
  * at some point a config sent from cloud for type `bar.conf` for `child1` arrives at C8Y config plugin
  * C8Y config plugin: publishs the config file content as MQTT retain message to `configs/bar.conf` 

>   * external device `child1`: recognizes the MQTT message on `configs/bar.conf` and processes the new config file content

Reviewer 5: The config plugin has a mechanism to broadcast the changed file via MQTT message. Specified in [here](https://thin-edge.github.io/thin-edge.io/html/references/c8y-configuration-management.html#notifications).

Your proposal is to use the mechanism also for child device? If yes, shouldn't the plugin receive a message to indicate "yes, I applied the new config" from the child device via MQTT?

Author: That MQTT-based proposal was anyway removed as deprecated from the spec (see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236/commits/75545e1f7bfaa5b305e3a9ba51741fe5b2c1ef4f).

**Proposal 2:**

> The `c8y_configuration_plugin` provides the field `protocol` for all records in the `c8y_configuration_plugin` configuration (reference to section 'Configuration' above). If `protocol` is set to "http" the `c8y_configuration_plugin` expects another process/external device to provide/consume the configuration file via HTTP protocol. Thereby the records field `path` is used with the prefix `http://<thin-edge device IP address>/tedge/configurations/` as URL. Example: `http://192.168.1.6/tedge/configurations/child1/bar.conf` where (192.168.1.6 is the IP address of the thin-edge device)

Author: To be explicit: We still provide local filesystem access, e.g. for local process (see my comment above: https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236#discussion_r926931122). Right?

> The `c8y_configuration_plugin` provides the field `protocol` for all records in the `c8y_configuration_plugin` configuration (reference to section 'Configuration' above). If `protocol` is set to "http" the `c8y_configuration_plugin` expects another process/external device to provide/consume the configuration file via HTTP protocol. Thereby the records field `path` is used with the prefix `http://<thin-edge device IP address>/tedge/configurations/` as URL. Example: `http://192.168.1.6/tedge/configurations/child1/bar.conf` where (192.168.1.6 is the IP address of the thin-edge device)

Reviewer: Yes, we can have both: files for local processes and HTTP for remote ones. But I would be systematic: *all* the files are exposed with *all* the available protocols. Having something that is configurable on a file basis will be a burden both for the users and the implementation. Having proper ACLs on top of that is another concern that is more important.

> The `c8y_configuration_plugin` provides the field `protocol` for all records in the `c8y_configuration_plugin` configuration (reference to section 'Configuration' above). If `protocol` is set to "http" the `c8y_configuration_plugin` expects another process/external device to provide/consume the configuration file via HTTP protocol. Thereby the records field `path` is used with the prefix `http://<thin-edge device IP address>/tedge/configurations/` as URL. Example: `http://192.168.1.6/tedge/configurations/child1/bar.conf` where (192.168.1.6 is the IP address of the thin-edge device)

Author: It is now no more on file basis, but on config-list basis (or device basis). I.e. files for the thin-edge device are consumed/provided via the local filesystem. Files for child-devices are consumed/provided via HTTP.

We could extend that later to allow also other config-lists than child-devices (e.g. those from within a containers) to get consumed/provided via HTTP.

> The `c8y_configuration_plugin` expects the process/external device always putting the latest config file to the thin-edge device. Then the plugin consumes that file whenever a cloud request comes in.<br/> 

Reviewer: This is a general assumption whatever the protocol used.

One can also add an MQTT request for the child device to upload its current configuration.

Author: As we introduced HTTP filetransfer supported by `tedge_agent`, the plugin has no more to deal with a protocol in direction to the external device, consequently and field `protocol` was removed.

Example Configuration:
```shell
$ cat /etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
files = [
    { path = '/etc/tedge/tedge.toml', type = 'tedge.toml' },
    { path = '/child1/bar.conf', type = 'bar.conf', protocol = 'http', childid = 'child1'  }
  ]
```

> Example Flow:

Reviewer: I imagine a different workflow.

* First, files are published over HTTP by the `tedge_agent` and not the `c8y_configuration_plugin`. Because sharing files with child devices and external component is a general need: for configuration files but also software packages and firmware.
* Second, one needs to distinguish files provided by the child devices (current state - or latest known state) from those to be consumed by the child device (desired state). Making the distinction make things clearer, avoid race conditions (where both endpoints update the same file concurrently), and open opportunities for progress tracking (one can check if a device has updated his configuration or not).
* Third, I would use a combination of HTTP and MQTT. HTTP to deliver/upload/download content. MQTT to trigger actions and notify events. Notably any change of a file under the HTTP root is notified over MQTT. MQTT retained messages could be used to deliver+notify in a single request; but I would consider this later.

Hence, here is the workflow I propose:
* `tedge_agent` serves PUT requests on `tedge/current/<child-id>/<any-path-chosen-by the-child-device>`.
* `tedge_agent` serves GET requests on `tedge/desired/<child-id>/<any-path-chosen-by the-cloud>`
* `tedge_agent` notify over MQTT any change of a file under `tedge-http-root` (uploaded by a child device in tedge/current or updated by a local process in tedge/desired).
* `c8y_configuration_plugin` is updated to handle two versions for each configuration (current and desired).
   * On c8y read request for a configuration,  `c8y_configuration_plugin` returns the `current` file content.
   * On c8y write request for a configuration,  `c8y_configuration_plugin` updates the `desired` file content and wait for  the `current` content to be updated to return the operation status to cumulocity. To be clarified: how to deal with errors, the child device behind unable to load a file.
   * The current behavior of `c8y_configuration_plugin` can be simulated with `desired = current = path` when only a `path` is provided (To be checked).
*  To manage configuration files for child-devices from c8y, the configuration of `c8y_configuration_plugin` uses then the HTTP feature of the `tedge_agent`.
   * ` { type = 'bar.conf', child_id = 'child1',  current = '/http-root/current/child1/bar.conf', desired = '/http-root/desired/child1/bar.conf'  }  }`

Author: That's an interesting approach. Especially since we would implement that new thin-edge feature (the HTTP GET and PUT service, probably in the tedge_agent), that can be mostly used as is also for other features than C8Y Cfg Plugin. And on the other hand the C8Y Cfg Plugin has just minimal touchpoints with that.

Author: I am curious how good that approach applies to Logging Management. One main difference here is, that log-files are no static files, but usually will be appended over their whole lifecycle. To avoid also here a request/response patterm there might be no way than uploading those files on change or in a specific cycle-time to thin-edge. However it would be good to avoid uploading the whole file again and again, and instead allow to upload/append just the new lines.

When I remember right (not completely sure) there was I way with HTTP POST to upload just chunks of a file. To be verified, but that could be another pro for that HTTP proposal.

Author: What's about security / access control?

With MQTT there is the ACL that allows to define multiple fine granular access rules, that can be bound to individual certificates or user/password per external device. That is what comes with mosquitto.

We need to provided something similar for HTTP as well. I see two level here:
1) Privilegde on HTTP server level:
To assure just authorised devices can access that HTTP server, and at that level all device have same permissions.
2) Privilegde on HTTP URL/Resource level:
To assure a child-device can only access it's own files, and not the ones of another device.

I am pretty sure we can agree that level 1 is a mandatory.

However I am not sure if level 2 is required. We need stress that and potentially check if we would have any feasible solution available. That depends probably on the server/component we select to use to provide HTTP services.

Author: I added that as favored proposal to the spec. See https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236/files#diff-0d430102a9a7f4e4431390a85806a990b51d2143dbc97bf596a267c893e1f693R194-R265

**Start Behaviour:**
  * external device `child1`: starts

>   * external device `child1`: sends all its config files with HTTP PUT method to the thin-edge device<br/>

Reviewer 5: So, we limit the start-up order must be first config plugin, then external device process?

Author: That part "sends all its config files with HTTP PUT method to the thin-edge device" was removed, since we have now an approach where the plugin request the config files on purpose.

  for instance `tedge/configuration_change//etc/tedge/mosquitto-conf/c8y-bridge.conf`.
* Since the type of configuration file is used as an MQTT topic name, the characters `#` and `+` cannot be used in a type name.
  If such a character is used in a type name (or in the path of a configuration file without explicit type),
  then the whole plugin configuration `/etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` is considered ill-formed.

## Configuration files for child devices

To manage configuration files for child-devices the `c8y_configuration_plugin` supports two aspects:
1) **Associating with cloud's child-device twin**<br/>
Allowing to associate a configuration file with a cloud's child-device twin
2) **Filetransfer from/to external device**<br/>
Allowing to consume/provide a configuration file from/to an external device via network

## Details to Aspect 1: Associating with cloud's child-device twin

> For aspect (1) the plugin provides the field `childid` for all records in the `c8y_configuration_plugin` configuration (reference to section 'Configuration' above). That field is interpreted as unique child-device id and the plugin associates the record's configuration file with corresponding cloud's child-device twin. If not provided the configuration file is associated with cloud's thin-edge device twin.

Author: That section was entirely rewritten, to support external devices to announce their configuration capabilities on its own to the plugin.

  * C8Y config plugin: notifies the external device about the new configuration via MQTT (reference to section Notifications above)
  * external device child1: recognizes the MQTT notification and downloads the new config with an HTTP GET request
  
    Example: HTTP GET to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/config/desired/child1/bar.conf`
  * external device child1: after processing, it updates the _current_ configuration on the thin-edge device with an HTTP PUT request.

    Example: HTTP PUT to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/config/current/child1/bar.conf`
  * C8Y config plugin: recognizes the MQTT notification about the updated file in the `current` folder,<br/>
    compares `/http-root/config/desired/child1/bar.conf` and `/http-root/config/current/child1/bar.conf`.
    * if both files are equal, the plugin reports success to C8Y.
    * if files are not equal, the plugin reports an error to C8Y.
    * TO-BE-DEFINED:
      * Which kind of error to report to C8Y in case of unequal files?
      * Any timeout to wait for update in folder `current`?

> ### Alternative Proposal: Filetransfer implemented in the plugin, based on MQTT

Author: I agree. It is removed now.

  - topic: `c8y/s/us/<childid>`
  - payload: `114,c8y_UploadConfigFile,c8y_DownloadConfigFile`

**Declaring 'provided configuration types'**

For each `childid` contained in the plugin's configuration, the plugin sends one MQTT message to C8Y. Thereby all `config types` assigned to that `childid` will be combined in that single message. The message is as below:
  - topic: `c8y/s/us/<childid>`
  - payload: `119,<config type 1>,<config type 2>,<config type 3>,...`

**When to send capability messages**

The `c8y_configuration_plugin` sends both MQTT message from above (for _supported operations_ and _provided configuration types_), always when the plugin's configuration is (re)processed. That means:
  - on startup of the plugin
  - always when the plugin recognizes a configuration change and processes it's configuration again

Note that the `c8y_configuration_plugin` does **not** create any child-device twin in the cloud. Instead the clouds child-device twins must be created upfront.

## Notfifications for Child-Devices

> Notifications for child-devices behave the same way as nofifications for the thin-edge device (as described in section _Notifications_ above), but are extended with the `childid`. That is since the `type` is unique for one device, but can again occur on another child-device or the thin-edge device.

Reviewer: By moving this section along the notification section, this will move away cross references, make things clearer and help to spot design errors.

Author: Meanwhile the entire section "Notfifications for Child-Devices" was removed as deprecated, see https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/9db6a56b1c45d5d9eee169b443f8a2b631cf5063

> Therefore the topic child-device notifications are published to has the `childid` appended: `tedge/configuration_change/{type}/{childid}`,

Reviewer: Since the `{type}` can be a `{path}` this cannot work.

Reviewer 2: I'd be in favour of making the `type` a mandatory field and avoid path separators and other special characters in it.

Author: Meanwhile the entire section "Notfifications for Child-Devices" was removed as deprecated, see https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/9db6a56b1c45d5d9eee169b443f8a2b631cf5063

Example:
```shell
$ cat /etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
files = [
    { path = '/etc/tedge/tedge.toml', type = 'tedge.toml' },              # appears in the cloud on the thin-edge device
    { path = '/etc/child1/foo.conf', type = 'foo', childid = 'child1'  }  # appears in the cloud on the child-device 'child1'
  ]
```

## Details to Aspect 2: Filetransfer from/to external device

For aspect (2) there is a proposal, followed by another alternative proposal. Decision has to been taken which proposal to follow.

### Proposal: Filetransfer provided by tedge_agent, based on HTTP

To provide/consume configuration files to/from external devices, the HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` is used.
  
The HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` provides the service to transfer files from external devices to the local filesystem of the thin-edge device's, and vice versa.

  * `tedge_agent` serves PUT and GET requests on `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/<path>`
    * `path` is chosen by the external-device; it may contain folders (e.g. `foo/bar/config-file.conf`)

>     * on an incoming PUT request `tedge_agent` stores the contained file to `/http-root/<path>`

Author: The HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` approaches now to support a _temporary file up/download_. With that the `http-root` folder will be handled by the filetransfer feature internally. So it was removed from that spec.

See that spec, section `tedge_agent serves PUT and GET requests for temporary file up/downloads `

    * on an incoming GET request `tedge_agent` sends the file `/http-root/<path>` to the requester (i.E. the external device)
    * `tedge_agent` does not force any predefined folder structure within `/http-root/`. However for configuration management it is best practice to use folder structure as below:
      * `/http-root/config/current/<child-id>/<config filename>`<br/>
         for config-files provided by the external device to the thin-edge device (current state - or latest known state)<br/>
      * `/http-root/config/desired/<child-id>/<config filename>`<br/>
        for config-files to be consumed by the external device (desired state)

>   * `tedge_agent` notifies over MQTT any change of a file under `/http-root/` (e.g. when uploaded by a external-device or updated by a local process). The notification messages are published on the topic `tedge/filetransfer_change/{path}`.<br/>

Author: We are talking here about two different kinds of notifications:
1) notifications sent by tedge_agent's file-transfer feature, on every file change
When one (e.g. the external device) has changed/added a config-file within the folder that is under the control of the file-transfer feature (i.E. that http-root folder), tedge_agent will send a notification.
   - that is usually consumed by the c8y config plugin, to get recognized when the external device has uploaded a new version of a config-file to thin-edge

2) notification sent by c8y config plugin, when new config is available from cloud
    - that is usually consumed by the external device to get recognized when the plugin has a new config-file version delivered by c8y cloud

However you are right. In case 2 from above there are two notifications: That is since the tedge_agent will also send one, when the plugin places the new config-file into the http-root folder, to make it available for file-transfer to the external device.

Maybe it would be more consistent to let an external device stick on the file-transfer notifications (intead of one from the c8y config plugin), since the external device actually sticks also on file-transfer to download/upload the file from/to thin-edge device. That would mean the c8y config plugin could avoid to send any notification, when it puts the new config-file into the file-transfer's folder. With that we would also solve problem raised in https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236#discussion_r932075050.

@didier-wenzek , what do you think about that?

>   * `tedge_agent` notifies over MQTT any change of a file under `/http-root/` (e.g. when uploaded by a external-device or updated by a local process). The notification messages are published on the topic `tedge/filetransfer_change/{path}`.<br/>

Reviewer 5: The spec as of today has better MQTT topic structure for the point 1). So, I'd say, keep like that :D

>   * `tedge_agent` notifies over MQTT any change of a file under `/http-root/` (e.g. when uploaded by a external-device or updated by a local process). The notification messages are published on the topic `tedge/filetransfer_change/{path}`.<br/>

Author: The point is, that the notification mechanism of the current plugin implementation is not enough for external child-devices. Since an external child-device does not share the same filesystem with the thin-edge device we need a kind of request-response pattern. That is e.g. in case of config retrieval operation from the cloud, to request the external child-device to upload it's config-file to the thin-edge device via HTTP file-transfer.

Moreover meanwhile we have an improved topic scheme for that request-response pattern.
See https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/blob/313609b49a04863164c9d9045fa5f2e20c670c61/docs/src/references/c8y-configuration-management.md#fetching-configuration-file-from-child-device-to-cloud

and

https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io_spikes/blob/baf5c4f7082ae9cc64b9cd41e9366fac1ae3e2c6/file-transfer-service/SUMMARY.md#configuration-management-mqtt-apis

Please have a look.

    TO-BE-DEFINED: Content of payload?
      
      Example:
      * HTTP PUT URL: `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/config/current/child1/bar.conf`
      * relating MQTT notification topic: `/tedge/filetransfer_change/config/current/child1/bar.conf`

  * `c8y_configuration_plugin` allows to handle two versions for each configuration file (_current_ and _desired_).
    * The configuration file's record `path` is treated as path of the _current_ version of a configuration file (see to section 'Configuration' above).
    * The configuration file's record `desired` can be used to define the path of the _desired_ version of a configuration file. If `desired` is not defined, then `path` is treated as _desired_ version also.
    * On c8y read request for a configuration, `c8y_configuration_plugin` returns the `current` file content.

>     * On c8y write request for a configuration, `c8y_configuration_plugin` updates the `desired` file content and waits for the `current` content to be updated to return the operation status to cumulocity.  

Reviewer 5: I could not understand why we need `current` and `desired` directories. Can you write two sequence diagram to describe how tedge device and external device communicates, one for "config upload request" and the other for "config download request"? It's quite difficult to understand the flow.

Author: That `current` and `disired` approach was meant to check after a configuration update from the cloud, whether the new configuration was accpepted by the external device. 

However that approach was now removed from the spec, as we switched to a concept where the config-file from all external devices are no more kept on the thin-edge device, but requested on purpose.

We introduced now a notification for the configuration update, where the external device reports to the thin-edge device whether the new configuration was accepted or not.

Example Plugin Config:
```shell
$ cat /etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
files = [
    { type = 'bar.conf', child_id = 'child1', current = '/http-root/config/current/child1/bar.conf', desired = '/http-root/config/desired/child1/bar.conf' } }
  ]
```

Example Flow:

**Start Behaviour:**
  * external device child1: starts
  * external device child1: sends all its config files with HTTP PUT requests to the thin-edge device; 

    Example: HTTP PUT to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/current/child1/bar.conf`

**Device-to-Cloud Behaviour:**
  * at some point a config retrieval for type `bar.conf` for `child1` arrives at C8Y config plugin
  * C8Y config plugin: sends the file `/http-root/config/current/child1/bar.conf` to C8Y<br/><br/>
    NOTE: The responsibility to assure that the latest config file content on the thin-edge device is always on the external device. When there is no file the plugin sends an error to the cloud on an every incoming config retrieval request.

**Cloud-to-Device Behaviour:**
  * at some point a config sent from cloud for type `bar.conf` for `child1` arrives at C8Y config plugin

>   * C8Y config plugin: stores the files received from C8Y to `/http-root/config/desired/child1/bar.conf`

Reviewer 5: In this sentence, the file will be stored in the tedge device, right? Why not `/tmp`, it is already configurable by our tedge CLI, and this is what we do for parent device config download.

Author: Applied. Now `/tmp` is used.

  * C8Y config plugin: notifies the external device about the new configuration via MQTT (reference to section Notifications above)
  * external device child1: recognizes the MQTT notification and downloads the new config with an HTTP GET request
  

>     Example: HTTP GET to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/config/desired/child1/bar.conf`

Reviewer 5: How can the external device can recognize and apply the file change? The external device is supposed to run a script for that or whatever?

Reviewer 5: I think the prototype will solve this question, so mark resolved now.

  - declaring provided _configuration types_

**Declaring 'supported operations'**

For each `childid` contained in the plugin's configuration, the plugin sends one MQTT message to C8Y. If one `childid` occurs more than once just one message will be sent. The message is as below:
  - topic: `c8y/s/us/<childid>`
  - payload: `114,c8y_UploadConfigFile,c8y_DownloadConfigFile`

**Declaring 'provided configuration types'**

For each `childid` contained in the plugin's configuration, the plugin sends one MQTT message to C8Y. Thereby all `config types` assigned to that `childid` will be combined in that single message. The message is as below:
  - topic: `c8y/s/us/<childid>`
  - payload: `119,<config type 1>,<config type 2>,<config type 3>,...`

**When to send capability messages**

The `c8y_configuration_plugin` sends both MQTT message from above (for _supported operations_ and _provided configuration types_), always when the plugin's configuration is (re)processed. That means:
  - on startup of the plugin
  - always when the plugin recognizes a configuration change and processes it's configuration again

> Note that the `c8y_configuration_plugin` does **not** create any child-device twin in the cloud. Instead the clouds child-device twins must be created upfront.

Author: Good point. My intention here was to avoid spending effort in implementing something complex (i.E. checking for and creating the device-twin), that we might throw away later. That is since we have not yet confirmed about the general way and responsibilities of child-device provisioning (among others the question: "**Who** creates **when** the device-twin?").

On the other hand when we implement nothing here, a device twin will be created by C8Y automatically, once thin-edge sends the supported operations SmartREST message `114,c8y_UploadConfigFile,c8y_DownloadConfigFile` to the cloud. And as we know that child-device twin is then not in a proper shape: 
   - it's _Name_ has the prefix "MQTT Device "
   - it's _Type_ is "c8y_MQTTChildDevice", 
   instead of "thin-edge.io-child" - as thin-edge puts for child-devices created by measurements or events.

So that automatically created device-twin could be misleading for one who did not create the child-device twin upfront.

However that  _child-device provisioning_ concept need anyway to be defined and confirmed as a very next step. I will incorporate the outcome here as soon as there is a decision.

> Note that the `c8y_configuration_plugin` does **not** create any child-device twin in the cloud. Instead the clouds child-device twins must be created upfront.

Reviewer 5: Understood. Then, in my opinion, it would be better staying as "error" unless we have the further specs & implementation of child device creation mechanism.

  for instance `tedge/configuration_change//etc/tedge/mosquitto-conf/c8y-bridge.conf`.
* Since the type of configuration file is used as an MQTT topic name, the characters `#` and `+` cannot be used in a type name.
  If such a character is used in a type name (or in the path of a configuration file without explicit type),
  then the whole plugin configuration `/etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml` is considered ill-formed.
  
## Configuration via MQTT

> The configuration of the `c8y_configuration_plugin` (i.E. the content of its TOML file) is additionaly provided on MQTT. That allows adding configurations without need for local filesystem access (e.g. for external devices or containers).

Reviewer: * What is the motivation for this?
* A key feature of the `c8y_configuration_plugin` is to configure the plugin itself from the cloud. One must keep this feature working.
* Composing a file from fragments is indeed a problem thin-edge should address. But this cannot be done in an ad-hoc manner for each kind of file. [A discussion is already open on that topic](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/discussions/1199).

Author: > * What is the motivation for this?
> 
> * A key feature of the `c8y_configuration_plugin` is to configure the plugin itself from the cloud. One must keep this feature working.

The motivation behind that is to enable external devices or containers to add their configuration files by their own to the C8Y configuration plugin. However as you say it is always possible to add a config files from the cloud to the C8Y configuration plugin.

So based further requirements analsyis we might able to deprioritize that topic, and for now focus on consuming/providing configuration files from/to external devices/containers.

For aspect (2) there are two proposals as below. Decision has to been taken which proposal to follow.

TODO: Add some short summary what those proposal shall achieve / there scope.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Proposal 1:**

Reviewer: Having proper section titles would be better. Both markdown and wording can be improved.

```suggestion
### Deliver and update configuration files over MQTT
```

Author: Improved now, see https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/0e2f15737d6652ba84aebf475bf710d3d560099f

  
The HTTP filetransfer feature of the `tedge_agent` provides the service to transfer files from external devices to the local filesystem of the thin-edge device's, and vice versa.

  * `tedge_agent` serves PUT and GET requests for temporary file up/downloads
    * a temporary file can be uploaded with an HTTP PUT request to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/tmpfiles`,
      where the HTTP response contains a _temporary URL_.
    * a temporary file can be downloaded with an HTTP GET request to `http://<ip address of thin-edge device>/<temporary URL>`

>     * a local API allows the plugin to access (expose and obtains) a temporary file directly via the thin-edge device's local filesystem

Author: Thats true, technically the plugin could use the REST API, and download/upload files via HTTP GET and PUT. However I described here a "local API" that uses the local filesystem between plugin and filetransfer, to achieve both things below:
   1) avoid that there are two copies of the same file at any point in time
   2) avoid that the file content is transfered/copied from one to another place, when the plugin obtains/exposes the file

Reason for that is to safe disc space and CPU use, especially for large files. Maybe we can postpone that for config-files, since these might usually really small. However when we start with SW Management or Firmware Management we definitely need to provide somehting in that direction.

>     * a local API allows the plugin to access (expose and obtains) a temporary file directly via the thin-edge device's local filesystem

Author: > Thats true, technically the plugin could use the REST API, and download/upload files via HTTP GET and PUT. However I described here a "local API" that uses the local filesystem between plugin and filetransfer, to achieve both things below [...]

However these things are not needed for configuration files, since these are quite small compares to files for SW Management or Firmware Management. So the C8Y Config Plugin can use the REST API. We shall consider such kind of local API later, when we adopt the filetransfer to SW Management or Firmware Management.

    * TODO: Investigate and decide about filetransfer's local API in scheduled prototype (https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1307), according to topics below:
 
      * local API must avoid that there are two copies of the same file at any point in time
      * local API must avoid that the file content is transfered/copied from one to another place, when the plugin _exposes_ the file. 
        Instead just the directory link may change (as it is the case for bash `mv` command).
      * file is removed from plugin's source folder, when the file was successfully exposed.
      
      Reasons for requirements above: Saving disc-space and CPU resources for large files.

  * C8Y config plugin: notifies the external device `child1` via MQTT to download the new configuration from the thin-edge device with the _temporary URL_.

    Topic: `tedge/configuration/req/send/{config type}/{childid}`<br/>
    Example: `tedge/configuration/req/send/bar.conf/child1`<br/>  
    Payload: ` <temporary URL> `<br/>
    TODO: Investigate and decide about topic structure and payload in scheduled prototype (https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1307) 

>   * external device child1: Downloads configuration file from the thin-edge device with the HTTP filetransfer feature and the _temporary URL_, and filetransfer removes the file from it's local filesystem folder.

Reviewer 2: Removing the file as soon as the download is complete sounds efficient in terms of storage, but I'm wondering if it'd lead to premature removal of this file after a partial download from the child device? Is it possible to detect if the file is "fully downloaded" by a client from the HTTP server side to achieve this? if not, wouldn't it be safer to remove the file after receiving the notification from the child device once it applies this config?

Author: I am not sure which kind of HTTP server/library we will use. However when the HTTP server has closed the file it has put the whole content into the TCP data stream. At that point the file can be removed. Lets see what information the HTTP library we will use give us about the transfer. And I expect whatever libary we will use it will give us at least an success or error signal as final result of the transfer - that would be then the signal to remove the file.

However I do not want to insist on that approach here. If it turns out that implementation-wise it is easier to get the indication via MQTT, we can do that. The important thing for me is, that the filetransfer takes care of the lifetime of that file, i.E. filetransfer is the one that removes the file.

Author: Decision was taken: Filetransfer will *not* remove the file, but the plugin is responsible for that. One reaon: A big firmware file may be re-used for more than one child-device; so more than one child-device shall be able to download it.

  * C8Y config plugin: publishs the config file content as MQTT retain message to `configs/bar.conf` 
  * external device `child1`: recognizes the MQTT message on `configs/bar.conf` and processes the new config file content

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Proposal 2:**

Reviewer: Having proper section titles would be better. Both markdown and wording can be improved.

```suggestion
### Deliver and update configuration files over HTTP
```

Author: Improved now, see https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/0e2f15737d6652ba84aebf475bf710d3d560099f

  * external device `child1`: recognizes the MQTT notification message downloads the new configuration file with HTTP GET and the URL from the thin-edge device
  * external device `child1`: processes the new configuration

> --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
> 
> **Proposal 3:**

Reviewer: Having proper section titles would be better. Both markdown and wording can be improved.

```suggestion
### Deliver and update configuration files using a thin-edge HTTP service
```

Author: Improved now, see https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/0e2f15737d6652ba84aebf475bf710d3d560099f

    * The configuration file's record `desired` can be used to define the path of the _desired_ version of a configuration file. If `desired` is not defined, then `path` is treated as _desired_ version also.
    * On c8y read request for a configuration, `c8y_configuration_plugin` returns the `current` file content.
    * On c8y write request for a configuration, `c8y_configuration_plugin` updates the `desired` file content and waits for the `current` content to be updated to return the operation status to cumulocity.  
    * The current behavior of c8y_configuration_plugin can be simulated with desired = current = path when only a path is provided.

Example Plugin Config:
```shell
$ cat /etc/tedge/c8y/c8y-configuration-plugin.toml
files = [
    { type = 'bar.conf', child_id = 'child1', current = '/http-root/config/current/child1/bar.conf', desired = '/http-root/config/desired/child1/bar.conf' } }
  ]
```

Example Flow:

**Start Behaviour:**
  * external device child1: starts
  * external device child1: sends all its config files with HTTP PUT requests to the thin-edge device; 

    Example: HTTP PUT to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/current/child1/bar.conf`

> **Device-to-Cloud Behaviour:**

Reviewer: When and how are declared the capabilities of the child devices?

Author: Details are added now, see section [Declaration of Capabilities for Child-Devices](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/blob/a6af33a1aaa3dbc8b8cfec94c1d81d093c09ff7f/docs/src/references/c8y-configuration-management.md#declaration-of-capabilities-for-child-devices)

  * C8Y config plugin: stores the files received from C8Y to `/http-root/config/desired/child1/bar.conf`
  * C8Y config plugin: notifies the external device about the new configuration via MQTT (reference to section Notifications above)
  * external device child1: recognizes the MQTT notification and downloads the new config with an HTTP GET request
  
    Example: HTTP GET to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/config/desired/child1/bar.conf`
  * external device child1: after processing, it updates the _current_ configuration on the thin-edge device with an HTTP PUT request.

    Example: HTTP GET to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/filetransfer/config/current/child1/bar.conf`
  * C8Y config plugin: recognizes the MQTT notification about the updated file in the `current` folder,<br/>
    compares `/http-root/config/desired/child1/bar.conf` and `/http-root/config/current/child1/bar.conf`.
    * if both files are equal, the plugin reports success to C8Y.
    * if files are not equal, the plugin reports an error to C8Y.
    * TO-BE-DEFINED:
      * Which kind of error to report to C8Y in case of unequal files?

>       * Any timeout to wait for update in folder `current`?

Reviewer: Another open question is:

* Do we provide an API for a child device to notify on configuration errors.

Author: Yes, we provide that.

In happy case a child-device responses to the plugin via MQTT:

   * Topic: `tedge/<childid>/commands/res/successful/config_update/<config file path>`
   * Payload: EMPTY

In fail case a child-device responses to the plugin via MQTT:

   * Topic: `tedge/<childid>/commands/res/failed/config_update/<config file path>`
   * Payload: fail reason as string
   
 See also https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/blob/ad15003854c59df59a41d30ebaae2a04d661596f/docs/src/references/c8y-configuration-management.md#pushing-configuration-file-update-to-child-device-from-cloud

    * a temporary file can be uploaded with an HTTP PUT request to `http://<thin-edge IP address>/tedge/tmpfiles`,
      where the HTTP response contains a _temporary URL_.
    * a temporary file can be downloaded with an HTTP GET request to `http://<ip address of thin-edge device>/<temporary URL>`

## Fetching configuration file from child device to cloud

A configuration file snapshot is fetched from an external device as illustrated below.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram

>     participant External Device

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    participant Child Device
```

Author: I used here intentionally the term 'External Device', to make clear that we have in that case not a local process, but an external device.

Reviewer 2: > I used here intentionally the term 'External Device', to make clear that we have in that case not a local process, but an external device.

But this flow is valid for external as well as local child device processes/containers as well, right? We don't have a different flow for local child device processes, do we?

Author: > I think we need a clear description what is "external device" and `child device" to understand the difference.

There is now a terminology section that describes all used terms on context of child-devices, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1236/files#diff-2712a2328b3177d213f13fff299592fad26c8defd1c0b704400b93c064d95ba8

  
    HTTP PUT request: `http://<ip address of thin-edge devicee>/tedge/tmpfiles`
    
  4) The response from the HTTP filetransfer feature contains a _temporary URL_, that is later used to uniquely access that uploaded file.<br/>
     Example for a _temporary URL_: `/tedge/tmpfiles/<random string>`

  5) external device child1: notifies the the plugin via MQTT about succeeded upload and the _temporary URL_.
 
    Topic: `tedge/configuration/res/retrieve/{config type}/{childid}`<br/>
    Example: `tedge/configuration/res/retrieve/bar.conf/child1`<br/>
    Payload: ` <temporary URL> `
       
    TODO: Investigate and decide about topic structure and payload in scheduled prototype (https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1307). Unhappy paths also to be considered here.
  
  6) C8Y config plugin: recognizes the MQTT notification about the uploaded file and the _temprary URL_, 
                       and downloads the file using HTTP the filetransfer with the _temporary URL_ to some temporary location.
  
    Example for HTTP GET request: `http://<ip address of thin-edge device>/<temporary URL>`

>   7) C8Y config plugin: sends the downloaded file to C8Y

Reviewer 2: Before this step, the plugin needs to delete the config snapshot from the file transfer service's storage with an HTTP DELETE request.

Author: HTTP DELETE step is added now.

  8) C8Y config plugin: removes the downloaded file from temporary location
  

## Pushing configuration file update to child device from cloud

A configuration file snapshot is pushed to an external device as illustrated below.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant External Device
    participant Tedge Agent
    participant C8Y Cfg Plugin
    participant C8Y Cloud

>     participant WebSpace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    participant WebSpace
```
Do we really need this participant? I'm assuming that you added it to highlight the fact that the config file could exist anywhere on the web and not necessarily in C8Y cloud itself. I'd say that it can be simplified to C8Y cloud to make the diagram simpler.

Author: That's good simplification sugesstion. I will remove that WebSpace thing and use C8Y instead.

Author: Done

**Declaring 'supported operations'**

> To declare supported operations the `c8y_configuration_plugin` uses thin-edge's _Supported Operations API_. Therefore the `c8y_configuration_plugin` creates for each child-device two files under `/etc/tedge/operations/c8y/` (similar as for the thin-edge device twin it-self, see section [Installation](#installation) above). For child-devices these files will be to put into subfolders, where the name of each subfolder is the `childid`.

Author: > There's still quite a lot of stale information in the current spec with references to fixed config file locations, `current` and `desired` keys etc. Please clean that up so that we can focus on the relevant content.
> 
> And when you write paragraphs with multiple lines, try to split each sentence into individual lines so that we can comment on each sentence separately.
> 
> It would also be nice if the specification clearly separates what the end user needs to do from the internal contracts of the tedge plugins like the operation file creation etc. The external API contracts like how an external child device will register itself with its supported operations/capabilities with the thin-edge device needs to be mentioned first, before going into details of how thin-edge will react to such a registration(creating all the supported operation files etc).
> 
> The following structure/flow might be helpful to improve readability:
> 
>     1. How a child device registers itself with thin-edge?
>        1a. How this registration is processed internally by thin-edge?
>        1b. How is this new device registration propagated to the connected cloud?
> 
>     2. How the child device declares its supported operations/capabilities to thin-edge?
>        2a. Internal processing by thin-edge
>        2b. Propagation to cloud
> 
>     3. How one supported operation like config management is performed?
>        3a. How the cloud operation plugin(e.g: c8y-config-plugin) handles this request?
>        3b. The responsibilities of the thin-edge (e.g: tedge-agent, file transfer service etc)?
>        3c. The responsibilities of the child device?

I replaced now the configuration-file per child-device with an MQTT message per child-device. That way an external device is able to declare it's configuration management capabilities by it-self at thin-edge.

With that change I also moved the section "Declaration of Capabilities for Child-Devices" to that place. Therewith the document should mostly match the structure/flow you suggested.
